Meeting New Challenges

I’ll start off by facing the facts. I’m probably at a disadvantage when compared 
to some of my peers who have overcome more difficult circumstances in their 
lives. I have been blessed with a good family and material needs were not in 
question. Although my parents divorced when I was very young, they both love me 
and I was able to see both of them growing up.

In spite of these apparent positives, I do not believe that my relatively 
comfortable existence as a child were what made me the person I am today. In 
retrospect it may have made things more difficult. I believe that improvement 
and the strengthening of oneself come through hard work and effort. I was not 
taught this by having a maid to clean up after me.

Of course, as a child I loved it. The path of least resistance is always 
preferable for one who does not care where they end up. That’s exactly who I was 
for the better part of my life. When I reached college, I had a desire to earn 
good grades. Yet even then I felt somewhat conflicted between putting a lot of 
effort into studying and just falling back on my natural ability as a student. 
I’m lucky to have a good brain but I feel remorse of conscience when I think 
about some of the missed potential.

The greatest challenge I have ever had was to overcome myself. I can certainly 
tell you of difficulties I have had. I have been financially independent from my 
parents since I was a freshman in college, by choice. I simply wanted to rely on 
myself for my means instead of relying on others. I was very lucky to have a 
college savings account which paid for about two thirds of my schooling or I 
would be saddled with a large debt from school loans now. Instead I worked 
weekends and summers for living expenses, and then was very fortunate to find a 
year-round internship with Compaq/Hewlett-Packard. I worked twenty to twenty-
five hours per week during the last three years of college.

I was also a member of the Corps of Cadets at Texas A&M. This is a military 
organization similar to other ROTC programs at schools like VMI or The Citadel. 
We woke up at six o’clock every morning and had formations in the evening before 
dinner time as well. It was pretty demanding to balance the schedule with 
classes and the internship. I almost took on more than I could handle when I was 
elected president of Upsilon Pi Epsilon, the Computer Science National Honor 
Society. I learned quite a bit about time management and task delegation during 
that busy year.

All of these accomplishments have only served to show me that I am capable of 
doing what I commit myself to do. I have put the effort into this application: 
studying for the GRE, making a website, completing the video game project, and 
producing several recordings of my guitar playing, all while performing my full-
time job at JPMorgan Chase. These tasks were made easy, even enjoyable, by my 
motivation and sincere interest in your program. In short, I am ready and 
excited to apply myself to the Media Arts and Technology Program’s Master of 
Science in Multimedia Engineering. I appreciate your consideration.
